---
title: Configure a Kubernetes build farm to use self-signed certificates
description: CI build pods can interact with servers using self-signed certificates.

sidebar_position: 40
helpdocs_topic_id: e5qkn9atiw
helpdocs_category_id: rg8mrhqm95
helpdocs_is_private: false
helpdocs_is_published: true
---

CI build infrastructure pods can interact with servers using self-signed certificates. This option is useful for organizations that prefer to use internal certificates instead of certificates generated by a public Certificate Authority (CA).

## Important notes

* This topic assumes that you are familiar with how to implement SSL in Kubernetes. General information about implementing SSL is outside the scope of this topic.
* With a Kubernetes cluster build infrastructure, all **Build and Push** steps use [kaniko](https://github.com/GoogleContainerTools/kaniko/blob/main/README.md). Kaniko uses the path `/kaniko/ssl/certs/additional-ca-cert-bundle.crt` to read certificates.
* Harness uses a UBI image for the Git Clone step. UBI reads certificates from `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-bundle.crt`.
* Different base images use different paths as their default certificate location. For example, Alpine images use this path to recognize certificates: `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt` For any other image, make sure you verify the default certificate path.

### STO pipelines

If you have STO scan steps in your pipeline, you can set up your certificates using the workflow described below. However, there are some additional steps and requirements. For more information, go to [Adding Custom Artifacts to STO Pipelines](/docs/security-testing-orchestration/use-sto/set-up-sto-pipelines/add-artifacts-to-pipelines.md).

## Enable self-signed certificates

1. Create a Kubernetes secret or config map with the required certificates in the same namespace used by the Harness Delegate.

   Here's a YAML example:

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: v1  
   kind: Secret  
   metadata:  
     name: addcerts  
     namespace: harness-delegate-ng  
   type: Opaque  
   stringData:                             
     ca.bundle: |  
       -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----  
       XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  
       -----END CERTIFICATE-------  
       -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----  
       XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  
       -----END CERTIFICATE-------
   ```

2. Mount the secret as a volume on the Delegate pod.

   For details, go to [Configure a Pod to Use a Volume for Storage](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-volume-storage/) in the Kubernetes documentation.

   You need to specify the following environment variables in the Delegate pod:

   * `ADDITIONAL_CERTS_PATH`: The path to the certificates in the Delegate, for example: `/tmp/ca.bundle`.
   * `CI_MOUNT_VOLUMES`: A comma-separated list of `source:destination` mappings. The `source` is the certificate path on the delegate, and the `destination` is the path where you want to expose the certificates on the build containers, for example: `/tmp/ca.bundle:/etc/ssl/certs/ca-bundle.crt,/tmp/ca.bundle:/kaniko/ssl/certs/additional-ca-cert-bundle.crt`.
   
   This list must include *all* certificates that your build containers need to interact with external services.

   Here's a YAML example:

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: apps/v1  
   kind: StatefulSet  
   spec:  
     template:  
       spec:  
           env:  
           - name: ADDITIONAL_CERTS_PATH  
             value: /tmp/ca.bundle  
           - name: CI_MOUNT_VOLUMES  
             value: /tmp/ca.bundle:/etc/ssl/certs/ca-bundle.crt,/tmp/ca.bundle:/kaniko/ssl/certs/additional-ca-cert-bundle.crt  
           volumeMounts:  
           - name: certvol  
             mountPath: /tmp/ca.bundle  
             subPath:  ca.bundle 
          volumes:  
           - name: certvol  
             secret:  
               secretName: addcerts  
               items:  
               - key: ca.bundle  
                 path: ca.bundle
   ```

   :::caution

   Make sure that the destination path is not same as the default CA certificate path of the corresponding container image.

   If you want to override the default certificate file, make sure the Kubernetes secret or config map (from step one) includes *all* certificates required by the pipelines that will use this build infrastructure.

   :::

3. Restart the Delegate. Once it is up and running, `exec` into the container and ensure that the volume exists at the mounted path and contains your certificates.

## Troubleshooting

If your builds fail due to a problem connecting to the scm service, add `SCM_SKIP_SSL=true` to the `environment` section of the delegate YAML. For more information about this issue, go to [Troubleshoot CI](/docs/continuous-integration/troubleshoot-ci/troubleshooting-ci.md).

If the volumes are not getting mounted to the build containers, or you continue to see certificate errors in your pipeline, try the following:

1. Add a [Run step](../../run-ci-scripts/run-step-settings.md) that prints the contents of the destination path. For example, you can include a command such as:

   ```
   cat /kaniko/ssl/certs/additional-ca-cert-bundle.crt
   ```

2. Double-check that the base image used in the step reads certificates from the same path given in the destination path on the Delegate.
