---
title: APM and logging tools
sidebar_position: 1
description: Understand APM and logging tools.
---

Application Performance Monitoring (APM) and Logging are essential for software development and maintenance. They provide insights into application performance and record information for debugging, maintenance, and security purposes.


## What is an APM tool?

APM tools automate the monitoring of various aspects of a web application's performance, focusing on user experience and resource utilization. They collect metrics such as request volumes, response times, latency, system metrics (CPU, memory, storage), and more.

You can configure your APM tool (also known as a health source) in Harness Continuous Verification (CV). Harness CV uses the data provided from your APM tool to analyze variations in different metrics. Harness CV supports all major APM tools, such as AppDynamics, New Relic, Google Cloud Operations, Prometheus, Datadog, and Dynatrace. To see the list of APM tools supported by Harness, go to [Metrics providers](https://developer.harness.io/docs/getting-started/supported-platforms-and-technologies#metrics-providers).

To know how to configure CV and set up your APM tool as a health source, go to [Configure CV](https://developer.harness.io/docs/category/configure-cv).


## What is a logging tool?

Logging tools are software solutions that facilitate the management and analysis of log records generated by applications running in production environments. These tools help developers and organizations capture, store, search, and analyze logs for various purposes, such as debugging, monitoring, auditing, and security.

You can configure your logging tool (also known as a health source) in Harness CV. Harness CV uses the logs provided by your logging tool to analyze errors. Harness CV supports all major APM tools, such as Splunk and Google Cloud Operations. To see the list of logging tools supported by Harness, go to [Log providers](https://developer.harness.io/docs/getting-started/supported-platforms-and-technologies#log-providers).

To know how to configure Harness CV and set up your logging tool as a health source, go to [Configure CV](https://developer.harness.io/docs/category/configure-cv).


## Next steps

- [Interpret metric verification results](./interpret-metric-results.md)

- [Interpret log verification results](./interpret-log-results.md)



