---
title: Agent compatibility
description: List of third-party software and tools supported by CET Agent.
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Agent Compatibility

This article lists the technologies (OSes, languages, third-party software and tools and their versions) that can be used with the CET Agent.

The CET agent is a native agent. As such, it's compatibility with different OSes and JVMs might differ, and would require paying attention to details as to where it is supported and where it is not.

## Operating Systems Compatibility

The CET Agent is a highly flexible agent that can be installed on different types of operating systems, although all OSs must be 64-bit: _x86-64_, _AArch64_ & _PowerPC 64_.

| **Operating System** | **Supported Versions** |
| --- | --- |
| Linux/Centos | 6.5+ |
| Linux/RedHat | 6.0+ |
| Linux/Debian | 10+ |
| Linux/Suse | SLES 12+ |
| Linux/Ubuntu | 14+ |
| Windows | 7+ |
| Windows Server | 2012+ |
| Alpine | 3.10+ |
| Amazon Linux (Arm) | 2 |
| Amazon Linux | 2 |
| AIX | 6.1+, 7.1, 7.2, 8+ |

### Containers

[TBD]

## Java

The Error Tracking Agent support Java and some other languages that run on top of the JVM.

### Supported Languages

| **Language ** | **Minimum Version** | **Comments** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Java | 6 | - |
| Kotlin | 1.5 | Requires source attach |
| Scala | 2.0 | Requires source attach |

:::info

Non-Java languages require the use of source attach to get the full user experience. The reason for that is if sources are missing, CET will use decompiled sources to show your code. The decompilers only support Java, which will result in unreadable and usable code when used on code that was generated by non-Java languages.

:::

### Oracle HotSpot VM

| **Java Version** | **LTS** | **Released on** | **End of Life** | **Comments** |
| --- | --- | --- |---|---|
| 17 | * | 2021-09-30 | - | - |
| 11 | * | 2018-09-30 | 2023-09-30 | - |
| 8 | * | 2014-03-31 | 2025-03-31 | - |
| 7 |  | 2011-07-31 | 2022-07-31 | - |
| 6 |  | 2006-09-30 | 2018-12-31 | update 20 and above |

:::info

When attaching an Error Tracking Agent to an Oracle JVM, the following vm flag needs to be added: `-Xshareclasses:none`. This flag is used to turn off class sharing which might prevent the agent from working correctly.

:::

### OpenJDK

| **Java Version** | **LTS** | **Released on** | **End of Life** | **Comments** |
| --- | --- | --- |---|---|
| 17 | * | 2021-09-30 | - | - |
| 11 | * | 2018-09-30 | 2024-10-30 | - |
| 8 | * | 2014-03-31 | 2023-06-30 | - |
| 7 |  | 2011-07-31 | 2020-06-30 | - |
| 6 |  | 2006-12-31	 | 2016-12-31 | update 20 and above |

The support for OpenJDK extends to other derivatives of OpenJDK, but not all of them are being tested. Some examples are:
<ul>
<li>Amazon Correto</li>
<li>Adopt OpenJDK</li>
<li>Adopt Zulu</li>
</ul>

:::info

When attaching an Error Tracking Agent to an OpenJDK JVM, the following vm flags need to be added:
* `-Xshare:off -XX:-UseTypeSpeculation`. This flag is used to turn off class sharing which might prevent the agent from working correctly.
* `-XX:ReservedCodeCacheSize=512m`- This flag increases the code cache reserved memory to at least 512MB which will prevent cases of performance issues when the application uses many classes.


:::

### IBM

| **Java Version** | **LTS** | **Released on** | **End of Life** | **Comments** |
| --- | --- | --- |---|---|
| 8 | * | - | - | - |
| 7 |  | - | - | - |
| 6 |  | - | - | - |

:::info

When attaching an Error Tracking Agent to an IBM JVM, the following vm flag needs to be added: `-Xshareclasses:none`. This flag is used to turn off class sharing which might prevent the agent from working correctly.

:::

### Supported Application Servers

| **Name** | **Version** |
|--|--|
|Jetty| TBD |
|Scala| TBD |
|Eclipse| TBD |
|NetBeans| TBD |
|IntelliJ| TBD |
|JBoss/Wildfly| TBD |
|CloudFoundry| TBD |
|Weblogic| TBD |
|Play Framework| TBD |
|Glassfish| TBD |
|Mule| TBD |
|WebSphere| TBD |
|Tomcat| TBD |

OverOps Interaction with Other Java Agents
OverOps performs isolated machine code instrumentation, so that our Agent doesn't interfere with the bytecode of other agents, and views all code simply as system code. The vast majority of monitoring performed by OverOps takes place in the native code, at a lower level than most other Java agents. This means that OverOps is mostly seamless to other agents at the bytecode level. And, since OverOps has a minimal CPU, memory, and network footprint on your server, the performance of other agents is not affected by its monitoring activity.

Other agents include, for example:

Dynatrace OneAgent
AppDynamics
New Relic
ServiceNow
PagerDuty
Non-Supported Agents
There are currently two agents that aren't compatible with the OverOps Java Micro-Agent:

Dynatrace AppMon Agent
JRebel Agent


### Interaction with other Java Agents

CET performs isolated machine code instrumentation, so that our Agent doesn't interfere with the bytecode of other agents, and views all code simply as system code. The vast majority of monitoring performed by CET takes place in the native code, at a lower level than most other Java agents. This means that CET is mostly seamless to other agents at the bytecode level. And, since CET has a minimal CPU, memory, and network footprint on your server, the performance of other agents is not affected by its monitoring activity.

These include:
* Dynatrace OneAgent
* AppDynamics
* New Relic - 3.38+
* ServiceNow
* PagerDuty
* Lightrun

:::info

When using multiple agents, the CET Agent should appear last in the VM arguments list before specifying the main class or jar.

:::

#### Non-Supported Agents
There are currently two agents that aren't compatible with the CET Java Agent:

* Dynatrace AppMon Agent
* JRebel Agent
* Takipi/OverOps

#### Non-Supported Java Plugins
There is currently one plugin that isn't compatible with the CET Java Agent:
* JaCoCo Maven plugin
