---
title: Harness STO Features
description: List of STO Features
sidebar_label: Features
sidebar_position: 01
---

This document outlines all the key features of Harness STO, providing a quick overview and links to detailed documentation for further exploration. To determine if a specific feature is supported in your deployment, please refer the [Deployment Options Documentation](/docs/security-testing-orchestration/whats-supported/sto-deployments).


**1.⁠ ⁠Security Scanners**
STO integrates with multiple security scanners to detect vulnerabilities. The supported scanners vary by scan type.
View the list of [supported scanners](/docs/security-testing-orchestration/whats-supported/scanners)

**2.⁠ ⁠Custom Scan and Ingestion**
STO allows ingestion of scan results from supported scanners that are not available as native steps. This enables integration with additional security tools. Learn more about [Custom Scan and Ingestion](/docs/security-testing-orchestration/custom-scanning/custom-scan-reference)

**3.⁠ Scanner ⁠Scan Modes**
Each supported scanner may offer different scan modes: Orchestration, Ingestion, and Extraction. These modes determine how the scanner interacts with your applications and infrastructure:
- **Orchestration**: STO manages the entire scanner execution process. 
- **Ingestion**: STO processes scan results generated by a scanner that was run externally.
- **Extraction**: STO retrieves pre-existing scan results from a scanner without initiating a new scan.

For details on specific supported modes and configuration instructions for each scanner, refer to individual scanner's documentation. To learn more about the scan modes refer to [STO scan modes](/docs/security-testing-orchestration/get-started/key-concepts/sto-workflows-overview)

**4.⁠ ⁠Create and Enforce Policies**
STO supports Open Policy Agent (OPA) policies to enforce security standards. Policies can be applied to scan results for compliance and governance. For a comprehensive guide on policy creation and enforcement, refer to [policy enforcement documentation](/docs/security-testing-orchestration/policies/create-opa-policies)

**5.⁠ ⁠Dashboards and Reporting**
STO provides dashboards to visualize scan data, track trends, and generate reports to inform your security strategy. [View scan results in dashboards](/docs/security-testing-orchestration/dashboards/security-testing-dashboard).

**6.⁠ ⁠Issue Exemptions**
Control which issues are flagged during policy enforcement by creating exemptions. This allows you to manage vulnerability exemptions and false positives to streamline your remediation efforts. Learn more about managing issue exemptions in our [Exempt Issues documentation](/docs/security-testing-orchestration/exemptions/exemption-workflows).

**7.⁠ ⁠Create Jira Tickets**
STO allows creating Jira tickets for detected security issues directly from the UI. Refer to create [Jira tickets documentation](/docs/security-testing-orchestration/jira-integrations).

**8.⁠ ⁠Remediate Issues with Harness AI**
STO integrates with Harness AI to generate remediation suggestions based on scan findings. [Use Harness AI for issue remediation](/docs/security-testing-orchestration/remediations/ai-based-remediations)

**9.⁠ ⁠Raise Pull Requests**
For repository-based findings, STO allows creating pull requests with AI-generated fixes. [Raise pull requests for security fixes](/docs/security-testing-orchestration/remediations/ai-based-remediations#create-pull-request-from-sto)

**10.⁠ ⁠Set Notifications**
Notifications can be configured for security issues to alert teams when vulnerabilities are detected. [Configure notifications](/docs/security-testing-orchestration/notifications/email-notifications)

