# Continuous Error Tracking Agent compatibility

This article provides a list of technologies that can be used with the Continuous Error Tracking (CET) Agent. These technologies include operating systems (OS), programming languages, third-party software, and tools, along with their respective versions.

The CET Agent is a native agent, which means its compatibility with various OS and Java Virtual Machines (JVMs) may vary. Therefore, it is important to carefully consider the details of where the Agent is supported and where it is not supported.


## Operating System compatibility

The CET Agent can be installed on a variety of operating systems. The Agent requires operating systems that are 64-bit and compatible with one of the following architectures: _x86-64_, _AArch64_, or _PowerPC 64_.

| **Operating System** | **Supported Versions** |
| --- | --- |
| Linux/Centos | 6.5+ |
| Linux/RedHat | 6.0+ |
| Linux/Debian | 10+ |
| Linux/Suse | SLES 12+ |
| Linux/Ubuntu | 14+ |
| Windows | 7+ |
| Windows Server | 2012+ |
| Alpine | 3.10+ |
| Amazon Linux (Arm) | 2 (Graviton 2) |
| Amazon Linux | 2+ |
| AIX | 6.1+, 7.1, 7.2, 8+ |


## Java

The CET Agent supports Java as well as other languages that run on top of the Java Virtual Machine (JVM).


### Supported languages

| **Language ** | **Minimum Version** | **Comments** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Java | 6 | - |
| Kotlin | 1.5 | Requires source attach |
| Scala | 2.0 | Requires source attach |

:::info note

Harness recommends using the source attach when using non-Java languages with the CET Agent. This is because if the source files are missing, CET uses decompiled sources to display your code. The decompilers only support Java, and if code generated by non-Java languages is decompiled, it may lose readability and become unusable.

:::


### Oracle HotSpot VM

| **Java Version** | **LTS** | **Released on** | **End of Life** | **Comments** |
| --- | --- | --- |---|---|
| 17 | * | 2021-09-30 | - | - |
| 11 | * | 2018-09-30 | 2023-09-30 | - |
| 8 | * | 2014-03-31 | 2025-03-31 | - |
| 7 |  | 2011-07-31 | 2022-07-31 | - |
| 6 |  | 2006-09-30 | 2018-12-31 | update 20 and above |

:::info note

Make sure to include the following VM flags when attaching an Error Tracking Agent to an Oracle JVM:

- `-Xshare:off -XX:-UseTypeSpeculation`: This flag disables class sharing, which helps prevent potential issues that could hinder the agent's functionality.
- `-XX:ReservedCodeCacheSize=512m`: This flag increases the reserved memory for the code cache to a minimum of 512 MB. This prevents performance problems when the application uses many classes.


:::


### OpenJDK

| **Java Version** | **LTS** | **Released on** | **End of Life** | **Comments** |
| --- | --- | --- |---|---|
| 17 | * | 2021-09-30 | - | - |
| 11 | * | 2018-09-30 | 2024-10-30 | - |
| 8 | * | 2014-03-31 | 2023-06-30 | - |
| 7 |  | 2011-07-31 | 2020-06-30 | - |
| 6 |  | 2006-12-31	 | 2016-12-31 | update 20 and above |

OpenJDK support extends to other derivatives, but not all of them are thoroughly tested. Following are some examples:

- Amazon Correto
- Adopt OpenJDK
- Adopt Zulu



:::info note

Make sure to include the following VM flags when attaching an Error Tracking Agent to an OpenJDK JVM:

- `-Xshare:off -XX:-UseTypeSpeculation`: This flag disables class sharing, which helps prevent potential issues that could hinder the agent's functionality.
- `-XX:ReservedCodeCacheSize=512m`: This flag increases the reserved memory for the code cache to a minimum of 512 MB. This prevents performance problems when the application uses many classes.

:::


### IBM

The IBM JVM(J9) is supported only on AIX., and include the following:

| **Java Version** | **LTS** | **Released on** | **End of Life** | **Comments** |
| --- | --- | --- |---|---|
| 8 | * | - | - | - |
| 7 |  | - | - | - |
| 6 |  | - | - | - |

:::info note

When attaching the CET Agent to an IBM JVM, include the VM flag `-Xshareclasses:none` to ensure proper functionality. This flag disables class sharing, which could otherwise hinder the Agent's performance.

:::


### Supported application servers

| **Name** | **Version** |
|--|--|
|Jetty| TBD |
|Scala| TBD |
|Eclipse| TBD |
|NetBeans| TBD |
|IntelliJ| TBD |
|JBoss/Wildfly| TBD |
|CloudFoundry| TBD |
|Weblogic| TBD |
|Play Framework| TBD |
|Glassfish| TBD |
|Mule| TBD |
|WebSphere| TBD |
|Tomcat| TBD |


### Interaction of CET with other Java Agents

CET performs isolated machine code instrumentation, which ensures that the CET Agent doesn't interfere with the bytecode of other agents. From CET perspective, all code is treated as system code.

The majority of monitoring performed by the CET occurs in native code at a lower level compared to most other Java agents. This characteristic allows CET to seamlessly coexist with other agents at the bytecode level. Additionally, CET has minimal impact on CPU, memory, and network resources on your server, ensuring that the performance of other agents is not affected by its monitoring activities.


**List of other Java Agents**

* Dynatrace OneAgent
* AppDynamics
* New Relic - 3.38+
* ServiceNow
* PagerDuty
* Lightrun


:::info note

When utilizing multiple Agents, Harness recommends placing the CET Agent as the last entry in the VM arguments list before specifying the main class or JAR. This order ensures proper initialization and interaction between the different agents.

:::


#### Non-supported Agents

Following agents are not compatible with the CET Java Agent:

* Dynatrace AppMon Agent
* JRebel Agent
* Takipi/OverOps


#### Non-supported Java plugins

Following Java plugins are not compatible with the CET Java Agent:

- JaCoCo Maven plugin
