---
title: November 6, 2022, version 77317
date: 2020-11-06T10:00
tags: [NextGen, "continuous delivery"]
---

# November 6, 2022, version 77317

## Enhancements

Expression support for Environments V2 (CDS-44750).
Currently, there are two versions of Services and Environments, v1 and v2. Services and Environments v1 is being replaced by Services and Environments v2.
Environments v2 now support variable expressions you can use to reference the Environment and Infrastructure Definition used at runtime in the CD stage.

For details on Services and Environments v2, go to Services and Environments Overview.
For details on Environment and Infrastructure Definition expressions, go to Built-in and Custom Harness Variables Reference.

## Fixed issues

Improve Azure Web App properties (CDS-44054)
Previously, if Application Settings or Connection Strings were removed from Harness Service then they wouldn’t be removed from the deployed Azure Web App.
Now Harness keeps track of Harness-added settings and will remove these settings from slot configuration when they are deleted from the Harness Service configuration.
Increase polling interval in executions to 20s from 5s to avoid reaching database limit (CDS-45655)
Secret referencing failing in Custom Artifact Source (CDS-45677, ZD-36222)
Secrets were not resolving in case of Service V2 because ExpressionFunctorToken was not set in Delegate request.
Service V2 with Service V1 Stage is causing Pipeline Studio to crash (CDS-45653)
<+infra.name> not resolving in V2 Service and Environment (CDS-45492)
<+infra.name> expression is now supported.
Template Library not taking Service Variables as input in the expression (CDS-45471)
With new service entity, if the manifest property was made a runtime input and its value was provided when running a pipeline in the form of an expression like <+serviceVariables.variableName>, the property would resolve to "null". However, if the manifest property was set to the same expression, directly in the service configuration, it would work as expected. This issue has been resolved now, with variable resolving in both cases.
Azure Artifacts VersionRegex filtering not honored (CDS-45433)
Initially we were fetching all the builds without filtering. We now support filtering via versionRegex.
Jira Create issue call not working with user type fields for Jira server (CDS-45402)
Creating an issue on Jira server with user type fields was creating an error.
Intermittent failures in GitOps Merge PR step (CDS-45397)
MergePR Github API was throwing an error: "Base branch was modified. Review and try the merge again". But our API was returning the error as a key not found in JSON object. This change is to fix that and return the appropriate error to the user.
Primary Artifact reference setting wrong runtime value in Run Pipeline form (CDS-45262)
GitOps Environment name doesn't resolve if all clusters are selected in pipeline (CDS-45156)
With introduction of multi-service and multi-infrastructure feature the Gitops enabled use was missed due to lack of automation. The change corrects the feature and we'll be adding automation around this scenario to prevent this in the future.
Azure Connector test always passing with incorrect credentials (CDS-45131)
Fixed the test connection API call for the Azure artifacts Connector.
Service V2: when a user adds duplicate variables by mistake and saves the object saves but the page crashes (CDS-44970)
Null check is added to prevent page crash.
Inappropriate error message displayed while selecting "Bucket Name" for various regions while adding the artifact source (CDS-44495)
When you give incorrect region, the list bucket call fails. The message has been handled and appropriate message is thrown.
Implement dropdown for Artifact Path in Amazon S3 Artifact Source (CDS-43675)
We have made the changes to fetch S3 filePaths in the dropdown while creating the artifact source.
Clear tags on AWS/Azure Infrastructure if dependent fields are changed (CDS-43179)
Cleaned tags when dependency fields have been updated.
Cleanup step is not getting executed for Kerberos (CDS-42609)
Status logging is added to Cleanup step for WinRM deployments. Now the output in UI marks the step as completed properly.
When number of Approvers in Harness Approval are given an expression it fails with Not able to detect Int (CDS-41699)
Bug resolved by converting the values (in the format 1.0, 2.0, etc.) received from parameter framework in case of expressions to integer. If we get double values like 23.4, they are still rejected. Now, we can give expressions evaluating to integers as input to minCount field in Harness Approval.
Approvals: JEXL expression doesn't support pipeline variables and expressions (CDS-25476)
With this ticket, pipeline expressions (<+pipeline...) as well as other common expressions are now supported for Approvals in JEXL criteria. Previously users could give expressions related to the ticket only.
