
<DocImage path={require('../../../4-use-ccm-cost-optimization/commitment-orch-docs/version-two/aws/static/homepage.png')} width="100%" height="100%" title="Click to view full size image" />

## View insights of an orchestrator 

To see the details of a specific orchestrator, click on "View Details" in the Orchestrator you want to view details for. 

The dashboard will show:

-----

- **Savings Breakdown**: This provides information about total savings through Savings Plans and Reserved Instances, as well as savings orchestrated by Harness. You can also see a graph for savings trends and details where you will see all commitment types and aggregate savings with variance compared to the last period.

------

- **Spend Breakdown**: This represents the percentage of your EC2 compute usage covered by Reserved Instances or Savings Plans. The dashboard displays your Total Compute Spend, showing the overall cost of your EC2 resources during the selected time period, along with Average Daily Spend metrics that track your daily EC2 compute expenditure. It also shows Spend by Purchase Options like On-Demand, Savings Plans, Reserved Instances, and Spot Instances.

     Both net amortized and unblended costs are now displayed, allowing you to view your spend in the format that best suits your needs.

    <DocImage path={require('../../../4-use-ccm-cost-optimization/commitment-orch-docs/version-two/aws/static/spend-breakdown.png')} width="100%" height="100%" title="Click to view full size image" />

------

- **Compute Coverage**: This represents the percentage of your EC2 compute usage covered by Reserved Instances or Savings Plans. It shows coverage by cost and displays how much you've spent on-demand as the total average coverage. It also shows average coverage by purchase options (On-Demand, Savings Plans, Reserved Instances, and Spot Instances) along with a graph for trends and breakdown. You can view compute coverage either by cost or by hours. When viewing by hours, it shows you the commitment hours and the coverage by purchase option in hours.

    <DocImage path={require('../../../4-use-ccm-cost-optimization/commitment-orch-docs/version-two/aws/static/compute-coverage.png')} width="100%" height="100%" title="Click to view full size image" />

------

- **Commitment Utilization**: This represents the percentage of your purchased Reserved Instances and Savings Plans that are actively being used. It shows the commitment utilization by purchase options. You can view utilization for all your commitments, including Savings Plans and Reserved Instances, as well as the utilization orchestrated by Harness. A graph displays the trend and details for compute utilization and variance over time.

    <DocImage path={require('../../../4-use-ccm-cost-optimization/commitment-orch-docs/version-two/aws/static/utilization.png')} width="100%" height="100%" title="Click to view full size image" />

------

- **Actions**: The Actions tab enables users to review and manage recommendations generated by the Commitment Orchestrator. You can view all the details regarding the pending approvals and executed actions categorized by day and type, then approve or reject them individually, in subsets, or all at once across different master accounts and regions. The Commitment Orchestrator currently supports six action states:

        - **Completed**: The approved recommendation has been successfully purchased in AWS.

        - **Error**: The commitment purchase encounters an API error in AWS.

        - **Approved**: You have approved the recommendation, allowing the action to proceed.

        - **Rejected**: The recommendation has been rejected, preventing the action from taking place.

        - **Expired**: The recommended action has expired.

        - **Queued**: The action is in the queue and waiting to be processed.
    
    <DocImage path={require('../../../4-use-ccm-cost-optimization/commitment-orch-docs/version-two/aws/static/action-state.png')} width="100%" height="100%" title="Click to view full size image" />

------

- **Inventory**: With the new look of the Commitment Orchestrator, Harness has introduced the inventory feature where you can see all purchases along with their status (expired, expiring soon, or active). This unified inventory eliminates the need for separate AWS views or manual exports, giving you complete visibility directly inside Harness. You can select between Reserved Instances and Savings Plans to view their status and type.
    
    **Inventory for RI**: Includes information about Reserved Instances purchased and details about instances managed by Harness, categorized by status (expired, expiring soon, or active). You can filter by status and instance type, with additional filters including:

    - **Instance family**: Filter by EC2 instance family (e.g., t2, m5, c5).
    - **Platform**: Filter by operating system platform (Linux, Windows).
    - **Tenancy**: Filter by instance tenancy type (Default, shared).
    - **Payment Option**: Filter by payment structure (All Upfront, No Upfront).
    - **Term**: Filter by commitment duration (1-year or 3-year terms).
    - **RI Type**: Filter by Reserved Instance type (Standard or Convertible).

    <DocImage path={require('../../../4-use-ccm-cost-optimization/commitment-orch-docs/version-two/aws/static/inventory-ri.png')} width="100%" height="100%" title="Click to view full size image" />

    **Inventory for SP**: Includes details about Savings Plans purchased and plans managed by Harness along with their status. You can filter by status and apply additional filters for deeper analysis. The supporting filters are:

    - **Payment Option**: Filter by payment structure (All Upfront, No Upfront).
    - **Term**: Filter by commitment duration (1-year or 3-year terms).
    - **SP Type**: Filter by Savings Plan type.

    The inventory table shows you all the details about the ID of the Savings Plan or RI, type, region, commitment amount, start date, and expiry date.

    <DocImage path={require('../../../4-use-ccm-cost-optimization/commitment-orch-docs/version-two/aws/static/inventory-sp.png')} width="100%" height="100%" title="Click to view full size image" />

------

- **Logs**: The Log History section provides a comprehensive audit trail of all Commitment Orchestrator activities, including date, connector name, type (RI Event and SP Event), and description of purchases. You also have the ability to export the logs as a CSV file.

    <DocImage path={require('../../../4-use-ccm-cost-optimization/commitment-orch-docs/version-two/aws/static/logs.png')} width="100%" height="100%" title="Click to view full size image" />

-----




