---
title: Impression
sidebar_label: Impression
helpdocs_is_private: false
helpdocs_is_published: true
description: "An impression is a record of a feature flag evaluation"
---

<p>
  <button hidden style={{borderRadius:'8px', border:'1px', fontFamily:'Courier New', fontWeight:'800', textAlign:'left'}}> help.split.io link: https://help.split.io/hc/en-us/articles/360006854852-Frontend-and-backend-API-key-usage </button>
</p>

An impression is a record of a feature flag targeting decision. An impression is created automatically each time a feature flag is evaluated and contains details about the feature flag evaluation (see [Impression fields](#impression-fields) below). Impressions are generated by SDKs each time the `getTreatment` method is called.

Impressions are valuable for feature monitoring and experimentation, because impressions are used to attribute events (including metric measurements) to feature flag variations. This equips FME to pinpoint the feature variation that is causing a slight performance impact or user outcome, and to alert you to the feature impact.

### Impression fields

| **Field** | **Description** |
| --- | --- | 
Environment ID and name | Environment where the feature flag was evaluated.
Key | The user ID (key) which was provided.
Label | Targeting rule in the definition that matched the resulting treatment being returned.
Machine IP and name <br /> **(only for Server-side SDKs)** | Machine making the feature flag evaluation.
Reception timestamp | Time the impression was received by Split.
SDK and version | Language and version of the SDK that was used in the evaluation. 
Split name | Feature flag which was evaluated.
Split version number | Date and time of the last change to the targeting rule that the SDK used when it served the treatment. Valuable in understanding when a change made to a feature flag got picked up by the SDKs and whether one of the SDK instances is not picking up changes.
Timestamp | Time the customer was served the treatment.
Traffic type ID and name | Traffic type associated to the feature flag evaluated.
Treatment | Feature flag treatment that was returned.

:::note[Note]
Split retains impression data for 90 days. Contact the [team at Split](mailto:support@split.io) to learn more.
:::

:::tip
Impressions are periodically sent back to Harness servers by each SDK. You can view incoming impressions in [Live tail](https://help.split.io/hc/en-us/articles/360044867032-Live-tail).
:::