---
title: SBOM Score
description: View the quality score of your SBOM
sidebar_label: SBOM Score
sidebar_position: 36
---

You can see the quality score of every SBOM that’s generated by SSCA module. This feature evaluates the quality of the Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) in various categories, utilizing a scoring system ranging from 0 to 10.

## Scoring Criteria

The SBOM Quality Score is calculated based on the following categories:

**NTIA-Minimum-Elements**: Assesses compliance with NTIA minimum element guidelines.

**Structural**: Checks adherence to underlying specifications of SPDX or CycloneDX.

**Semantic**: Evaluates the correctness of SBOM field meanings specific to their standard.

**Quality**: Determines the overall data quality present in the SBOM.

**Sharing**: Assesses the SBOM's readiness for sharing.

Each category contributes to an overall score reflecting the SBOM's quality, compliance, and readiness for sharing.

## How It Works

**SBOM Generation**: Upon generating an SBOM in SSCA, it undergoes quality scoring.

**Scoring Process**: The [sbomqs](https://github.com/interlynk-io/sbomqs/) tool evaluates the SBOM across the defined categories.

**Score Display**: The final score, ranging from 0 to 10, is displayed alongside the SBOM details within SSCA.

## Viewing the Score

### Artifact View in SSCA

You can view the score alongside the SBOM in the SBOM column

<docimage path={require('../static/SBOM-Score-Artifact-View.png')} />

By clicking on the score, you see the complete breakdown of scores in various categories. You can expand each category to see the score of individual items

<docimage path={require('../static/SBOM-Score-Details.png')} />


You can also see the SBOM score in the pipeline execution view alongside the SBOM


## Score Interpretation

**Score Range**: 0 (lowest) to 10 (highest).

**Higher Scores**: Indicate better quality, compliance, and readiness for sharing.

**Lower Scores**: Suggest areas for improvement or further investigation.



For more detailed information on scoring criteria, visit the sbomqs tool's GitHub page: sbomqs GitHub [Repository](https://github.com/interlynk-io/sbomqs/).