---
title: Run STO scans with custom SSL certificates
description: How to run STO scans with custom SSL certificates. 
sidebar_position: 10
---

You can set up Harness STO to communicate with your scan tools using custom (self-signed) SSL certificates. This option is useful for organizations that prefer to use internal certificates instead of certificates generated by a public Certificate Authority (CA).

Harness supports the following setups for running scans with custom certificates: 

- [Add your custom certificates to the delegate.](/docs/security-testing-orchestration/use-sto/set-up-sto-pipelines/add-custom-certs/add-certs-to-delegate.md) This workflow is recommended if ALL of the following are true:

  - You're using a Kubernetes or Docker delegate.

  - You can configure the delegate directly.

  - Your pipeline doesn't require any additional files, such as license or context files, to run scans.
  
- [Add your custom certificates to individual pipelines.](/docs/security-testing-orchestration/use-sto/set-up-sto-pipelines/add-custom-certs/add-certs-to-pipelines.md) This workflow is recommended if ANY of the following are true:

  - You're using any delegate type other than Kubernetes or Docker, such as a Harness Cloud delegate.

  - You cannot access or customize your delegate directly. 

  - The external scanner requires additional files, such as context or license files, to run scans. For example, ZAP scans might require files as auth scripts.

- [Add your certificates to your local scanner images.](/docs/security-testing-orchestration/use-sto/set-up-sto-pipelines/use-private-registry-for-sto-scanner-images.md) This is an option if you're using a private image registry to store and download your scanner images. 