---
title: Ingest Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) data into SCS
description: Harness SCS can ingest data from any scanner that can generate SBOM
sidebar_label: Ingest SBOM
sidebar_position: 20
redirect_from:

- /docs/software-supply-chain-assurance/sbom/ingest-sbom-data

tags:
  - harness-scs 
  - ingest-sbom
  - open-source-management
  - sbom 
---


A [Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)](https://cyclonedx.org/capabilities/sbom/) is a list of all the components, libraries, and other dependencies used in a software application. While Harness SCS enables you to [generate SBOMs](/docs/software-supply-chain-assurance/open-source-management/generate-sbom-for-repositories), it also supports the ingestion of SBOMs in JSON, [SPDX](https://spdx.dev/learn/overview/) or [CycloneDX](https://cyclonedx.org/specification/overview/) formats, generated by any third-party tool.

Configure the SBOM Orchestration step in SCS to seamlessly ingest SBOM. In this example, we will generate an SBOM using the Trivy CLI in a CI Run step, and then ingest it using the SBOM Orchestration step.

You can ingest SBOM for both [container](/docs/software-supply-chain-assurance/open-source-management/ingest-sbom-data#container-images) and [non-container](/docs/software-supply-chain-assurance/open-source-management/ingest-sbom-data#non-container-images) images.

<!-- :::info

If you are utilizing STO Steps to generate the SBOM and wish to ingest it, please refer:

* [Ingest results from a Blackduck STO scan step.](./generate-sbom-blackduck.md)
* [Ingest results from an Aqua Trivy STO scan step.](./generate-sbom-aqua-trivy.md)

::: -->


## Configure your pipeline to ingest SBOM
1. In your Harness pipeline, Navigate to the stage where you want to ingest the SBOM, and select the **Overview** tab.
2. In **Shared Paths**, enter a path to a location where your SBOM can be stored on the build machine, such as `/shared/customer_artifacts`.

   <DocImage path={require('../../security-testing-orchestration/use-sto/static/ingesting-issues-from-other-scanners-00.png')} width="70%" height="70%" />

3. Add a step to your stage that generates an SBOM, such as a **Run**, **Plugin**, or **GitHub Action** step.

   For example, this **Run** step uses [Aqua Trivy](https://aquasecurity.github.io/trivy/dev/docs/supply-chain/sbom/) to generate an SBOM.

   ```
    trivy image \
     --format spdx-json \
     --output /shared/customer_artifacts/result.spdx.json \
     ubuntu:22.04
   ```

   <DocImage path={require('./static/ingesting-sbom-from-other-scanners-01.png')} width="50%" height="70%" />

   <!-- :::tip

   You can also configure pipelines to [ingest SBOM from STO scanner steps](./generate-sbom-blackduck.md).

   ::: -->

4. If your SBOM tool can't output directly to your **Shared Path**, then add commands or a **Run** step to copy the SBOM into the directory specified in **Shared Paths**.

:::info
**SBOM Orchestration** step in deploy stage can only be used in the [Containerized Step Groups](/docs/continuous-delivery/x-platform-cd-features/cd-steps/containerized-steps/containerized-step-groups.md)
:::


### Container Images

Follow the instructions below to ingest the SBOM for container images:

   * **Step Mode:** Set the step mode to **Ingestion**.
   * **SBOM File Path:** enter the path to the SBOM file generated by your SBOM tool.
   * **Source:** Set the source, which can be Docker Registry, ECR, GCR, ACR or Repository. Depending on your selection, a unique set of fields will appear, each specific to the source you've chosen. Address these fields as required, this is similar to configuring the source in SBOM Orchestration step. For more details of what each field entails, please refer to the [documentation on SBOM Orchestration](/docs/software-supply-chain-assurance/open-source-management/generate-sbom-for-repositories). If you are using Docker Registry, you can follow along.
   * **Image:** Enter the name of your image with tag or digest, such as `my-docker-org/repo-name:tag` or `my-docker-org/repo-name@sha256:digest` .

   You can securely sign the artifacts using **Cosign** or **Cosign with Secret Manager**

import GenerateKeysPrerequisite from '/docs/software-supply-chain-assurance/shared/generate-cosign-artifact.md';

<GenerateKeysPrerequisite />


   <DocImage path={require('./static/sbom-ingestion-step.png')} width="50%" height="50%" />


### Non-Container Images:

Artifacts aren’t limited to container images. With the SBOM Orchestration step, you can also ingest SBOMs for non-container artifacts, with each artifact uniquely identified by its digest (SHA).

The following are the non-container artifact types are supported:

- Helm (`.tgz`)
- YAML manifest (`.yaml`, `.yml`)
- Jar (`.jar`)
- War (`.war`)
- Artifacts that are not listed above will be considered as `Unknown` type.


Follow the instructions below to ingest the SBOM for non-container images:

**Name:** Provide a name for the sbom step.

**SBOM File Path:** Enter the path to the SBOM file generated by the SBOM tool.

**Artifact Source:** Select the Harness Local Stage as the source of the artifact.

**Workspace Artifact Path:** Provide the exact path to the artifact within the workspace. Ensure that you run a custom step to pull the artifact into the workspace directory.

**Artifact Name:** Specify the name of the artifact.

**Version:** Provide the artifact version.

<!-- **Target Detection:** Choose between Auto and Manual. -->

<!-- **Auto (default):** Automatically sets the artifact name from the provided path.

**Manual:** Allows you to manually specify the artifact name and version. -->

:::note

SBOM ingestion for non-container artifacts does not currently support attestation, and the SBOM policy enforcement step.

:::


<DocImage path={require('./static/sbom-noncontainer-ingest.png')} width="50%" height="50%" />


## Run the pipeline
​
When the pipeline runs, the SBOM Orchestration step performs the following actions:

- Ingests the SBOM to SCS module.
- Specifically for Containers:
   - Generates and signs an attestation using the provided private key and password.
   - Stores the SBOM in Harness and uploads the `.att` file to your container registry.

SBOMs for both Containers and Code Repositories are accessible in the [Artifacts view](/docs/software-supply-chain-assurance/artifact-security/overview). Additionally, you can locate the SBOM for any artifact on the **Supply Chain** tab within the **Execution Details** page in Harness. For detailed insights, please refer to the [view pipeline execution](/docs/software-supply-chain-assurance/artifact-security/overview#sbom-tab) results documentation.