### 2017-05-18
#### Web Console Enhancements
  ##### Traffic Allocation
  Increase the exposure of customers exposed to the Split by specifying the percentage of traffic that the "targeting rules" should be evaluated on. Visit the [documentation](https://help.split.io/hc/en-us/articles/360020525572-Allocate-traffic) to learn more.
  ##### Additional Matchers
  The editor continues to get more powerful, now supporting *not*, additional string, and new set matchers. Target by users whose "email ends with @acme.com" or who's "plan type is part of premium, growth, basic". Visit the [documentation](https://help.split.io/hc/en-us/articles/360020793231-Target-with-custom-attributes#types-and-matchers) to learn more.
  ##### SAML (Coming Soon)
  Soon you will be able to login to Split with your corporate credentials with Split's support for SAML(Security Assertion Markup Language). Configuring SAML for your Split account will let you and all your teammates log in to Split using the credentials stored in your organization's Active Directory, LDAP, or another identity store that has been configured with a SAML Identity Provider.
  ##### Status Page
  We've upgraded our status page to provide enhanced reporting for our customers. Subscribe at [status.split.io](https://status.split.io/) to receive updates in service changes.
  #### SDK Enhancements
  ##### JavaScript Logging
  New and augmented logging framework for JS to allow better traceability of what's going on during evaluations of treatments and network activity for debugging purposes. Visit the [documentation](https://help.split.io/hc/en-us/articles/360020448791-JavaScript-SDK#logging) to learn more.
