### 2017-08-21
#### Web Console Enhancements
##### Welcome!
Not following these release notifications?  You should be!  Split also now surfaces the latest and greatest features within the Split web console.  Click on the Split icon in the top left to see what's new.
##### Simplified Navigation
To make room for new functionality (we'll show you soon!) we have moved to a left-hand navigation. With this transition, we have included quick access to our documentation, knowledge base and system status!
##### New Matchers
Split's targeting capabilities get more powerful with the introduction of 3 new matchers - boolean, regex, and dependencies.  You can now target customers who are seeing a particular treatment of another Split using the dependency matcher, build robust and custom targeting rules using the regex matcher, and simplify your targeting with a simple boolean matcher. Visit the [documentation](https://help.split.io/hc/en-us/articles/360020791591-Target-customers) to learn more.
##### SDK Upgrade Warnings
Your feedback is important to us. We're continually improving our SDKs based on your feedback.  New upgrade warnings in Split will warn users when using new functionality not supported by their current SDK and prompting them to upgrade to the latest version available.
#### SDK Enhancements
##### Split Synchronizer Proxy Mode
The Split Synchronizer, released in July, coordinates the sending and receiving of data to a remote data store that all of your processes can share when updating definitions and rules for the evaluation of treatments.  Today, we enhance that functionality, by allowing you to configure the Split Synchronizer in proxy mode.  Using proxy mode, you can reduce connection latencies while enabling the proxy to receive information from and post impressions to Split servers. Visit the [documentation](https://help.split.io/hc/en-us/articles/360019686092-Split-synchronizer) to learn more.
