---
title: Chaos Engineering
tags: [NextGen, "chaos engineering"]
date: 2023-02-07T10:00
sidebar_position: 9
---

Harness Chaos Engineering is updated regularly in Harness SaaS. Review the notes below for details about recent changes.

:::note
Harness deploys updates progressively to different Harness SaaS clusters. You can identify the cluster hosting your account in your Account Overview page. The features and fixes in the release notes may not be available in your cluster immediately.

Additionally, the release notes below are only for NextGen SaaS. FirstGen SaaS release notes are available [here](/docs/first-gen/firstgen-release-notes/harness-saa-s-release-notes) and Self-Managed Enterprise Edition release notes are available [here](/release-notes/self-managed-enterprise-edition).
:::

## February 22, 2023, version 0.8.4

### What’s new

* Polling model to communicate between chaos infrastructure and the control plane (CHAOS-644)
    * This release updates the method of communication from web socket to the polling model. This allows the chaos infrastructure to handle higher loads with better scalability.

:::note
From this release onward, chaos infrastructures will communicate with the control plane through the polling model. To allow the existing chaos infrastructure to communicate with the control plane, reconnect or upgrade the chaos infrastructure by redownloading the manifest file.
::: 

* Log service integration with experiment logs (CHAOS-642)
    * This release adds logs integration into log-service. The logs generated by the chaos experiments persist in GCS even after the experiment pods are deleted from the cluster. It is important to note that only logs associated with the fault are retained. Logs for installations and clean-up steps are not retained.

* View and download the report for the runs of the chaos experiment (CHAOS-606)
    * This release allows you to view and download the report (as a PDF file) for all the runs of a chaos experiment. This helps you analyse and store the execution details of the chaos experiment.

* Chaos execution screen shows fault configuration details (CHAOS-1058)
    * This release displays the fault configuration details along with the probes and logs (previously displayed) on the **View execution details** page. The fault configuration details include the target application and fault tunables that you selected while constructing the experiment.

* Fallback view when tunables are unavailable (CHAOS-1063)
    * This release adds a fallback view when no fault tunables are available when you are constructing a chaos experiment. This fallback view displays the message "No tunables for the selected fault: fault_name.".

* Chaos configuration step in **Pipelines** shows the name of the chaos experiment (CHAOS-986)
    * This release shows the name of the experiment instead of showing the experiment Id in the chaos configuration setup step in **Pipelines**. This helps you identify experiments with ease.

* Search functionality when selecting experiments from chaos hub (CHAOS-1050)
    * This release adds search functionality when selecting an experiment template from chaos hub. You can also filter the experiments you wish to view or select from the chaos hub. This allows you to select and run your experiment without having to search through multiple experiments.

* Chaos infrastructure manifest file extension changed to .yaml (CHAOS-1037)
    * This release changes the downloadable chaos infrastructure manifest file extension from .yml to .yaml.

* **Set fault weights** tab moved inside **Tune fault** tab (CHAOS-1077)
    * This release moves the **Set fault weights** tab, which was previously a separate tab, into the **Tune fault** tab. This allows you to tune the fault parameters and set fault weights in a single step rather than navigating through multiple tabs.

* Support for the GitLab connector (CHAOS-35)
    * This release introduces a new connector, namely the GitLab connector, when you wish to connect to a chaos hub.

### Early access

* This release does not include any early access features.

### Fixed issues

* When two faults were being executed in parallel, the timestamp in the **View detailed execution** showed only for the first fault. The second fault showed an empty timestamp field. This issue has been fixed. (CHAOS-1064)
 
* When the latest run of a chaos experiment was stopped or had not started yet, the latest run showed the message "This experiment has not been run yet". Now, it has been fixed so that the summary of a chaos experiment shows the latest runs that were successful. (CHAOS-1076)
 
* When the details of a chaos experiment were being filled, clicking **Cancel** would show a message "Are you sure you want to proceed?" irrespective of whether or not the fields were populated. This issue has been fixed. (CHAOS-1072)
 
* When you tried to enable chaos on an infrastructure, clicking anywhere outside the prompt would close the chaos infrastructure selection prompt. This issue has been fixed. Only by clicking the **X** button at the top does the chaos infrastructure prompt close. (CHAOS-1070)
 
* In **Pipeline**, in the **Resilience** tab, the text in the ‘View in chaos module’ button overflowed when the name of the probe was too long. This issue has been fixed so that the probe name is displayed when you hover on it. (CHAOS-1044)
 
* In **Pipeline**, when you tried to select an experiment in the chaos experiments page, the pagination section overflowed. This issue has been fixed so that the chaos experiments plage shows two buttons: **Prev** and **Next** to navigate through the pages. (CHAOS-1045)  
 
* In chaos hubs, the number of experiments in the category tab for the chaos experiments overflowed. This issue has been fixed. (CHAOS-1053)


## February 7, 2023, version 0.7.3

### What’s new

* This release does not include any new features.

### Early access

* This release does not include any early access features.

### Fixed issues

* When the connection between the control plane (user interface) and your cluster was broken (or closed), the chaos infrastructure displayed ‘disconnected’ status with the incorrect message "chaos infrastructure is already connected." Now, it has been fixed such that chaos infrastructure displays ‘disconnected’ status only after confirming the status of the connection using the Ping-Pong model, i.e., the control plane sends a message to the user cluster, and if the user cluster does not respond to it, the status is ‘disconnected’. Consequently, the message "chaos infrastructure is disconnected" is displayed. (CHAOS-1113)

* There was no response from the chaos infrastructure when one or more pods (or replicas) of the associated components were not running. Now, it has been fixed so that the chaos infrastructure requires a minimum of one pod (replica) to be in the running state for all the required components. As a result, pod evictions caused by node shutdown or scaling operations will have no effect on the status of the chaos infrastructure. (CHAOS-1114)

:::note
This release introduces the Ping-Pong model, which requires the users to upgrade their existing chaos infrastructures to the latest version by re-downloading the chaos infrastructure manifest from the user interface and applying it to the respective cluster.
:::

## January 17, 2023, version 0.7.2

### What's new

* Resilience tab introduced on the pipeline execution screen (CHAOS-963)
    * This release adds a resilience tab, which displays the experiment results as a list of probes, their logs (descriptions), and probe status. Instead of navigating to the **View detailed execution** section of the experiment, you can now view the results of all the experiments on the pipeline execution screen. 

* Support for X-API-KEY authentication (CHAOS-667)
    * This release adds support for X-API-KEY authentication for user-facing HCE APIs. This way, you can avoid using a JWT token, which gives more control over the module, and set your own custom expiration time on the X-API-KEY. 

* Support for deployment on existing chaos infrastructure (CHAOS-954)
    * This release adds support for deploying your chaos infrastructures on clusters that use the existing (deployed) Harness delegates (also known as the brownfield method of deployment). You can select the connector that points to the required delegate and other details like installation mode, service account name, and namespace, after which the YAML manifest is generated and sent over to the cluster instead of being downloaded on your system. Once the delegate receives the manifest, it deploys your chaos infrastructure on the selected cluster. Currently, you can deploy the chaos infrastructure by using only account-level delegates.

* Details of an experiment are prefilled when adding it to a chaos hub (CHAOS-989)
    * Instead of forcing you to re-enter details, this release prefills the details of the experiment that you want to add to a chaos hub. You can simply navigate to the experiment and click **Add to ChaosHub**. The resulting screen displays the name of the experiment, a description (optional), and tags (optional). You can add your experiment to the chaos hub of your choice by clicking **Save**.

* One sync retry to connect to a disconnected chaos hub (CHAOS-999)
    * A chaos hub that is disconnected does not list any faults or experiments. This release adds a feature such that when you click on a disconnected chaos hub, HCE tries to synchronize and connect to the chaos hub at least once. 

* Filter chaos experiment based on target infrastructure (CHAOS-959)
    * On the **Deployment** tab, when you click on **Pipeline** and select a chaos experiment, you can filter experiments on the basis of their names. This release adds another filter so that you can view experiments on the basis of their target chaos infrastructure.

* Display an error message when URL is incorrect (CHAOS-1011)
    * If you enter an incorrect URL in your browser when viewing a chaos experiment, previously, the user interface would show a blank screen. This release displays an error message stating that the entered URL is invalid.

* The **Last updated by** field shows a user name (CHAOS-916)
    * A saved chaos experiment shows the **Resilience score**, **Last run status**, and **Last updated by** fields as **N/A**. This release updates the  **Last updated by** field with the name of the user who updated the chaos experiment most recently.

* Average resilience score shows the difference between the current and last executed resilience scores (CHAOS-916)
    * On the chaos experiments tab, the **Resilience score** field displayed the resilience score and the percentage increase in resilience score between the current and previous runs of an experiment. This release removes the percentage increase and, instead, displays the difference between the current run's and previous run’s resilience score for better readability.

* The **Experiments overview** page categorizes experiments on the basis of average resilience score (CHAOS-802)
    * This release categorizes and displays all the chaos experiments on the basis of average resilience score. It also displays the number of experiments in each category. It shows three categories based on the average resilience scores of the experiments: 0 through 39, 40 through 79, and 80 through 100. This provides better insights about the chaos experiments and their resilience scores. Previously, the overview page showed only the number of experiments that passed and the number of experiments that failed. 

* Every run of an experiment is clickable to view detailed execution (CHAOS-1032)
    * On the **Chaos Experiments** tab, you could see the detailed execution of an experiment's runs by clicking the three vertical dots corresponding to a run, and then clicking **View run**. In this release, you can also directly click the experiment run to view its detailed execution.

### Early access

* This release does not include any early access features.

### Fixed issues
* Searching for chaos experiments by using the search bar showed only those experiments that had been run at least once. Now, when you search for an experiment, the search results include those experiments that were aborted and experiments that were saved but not run. (CHAOS-916)
* When specifying the target application parameters through a YAML manifest, if you left some parameters empty, the user interface of the target application page would stop responding. This has been fixed so that, irrespective of the values that you enter in the YAML manifest, you can change the values of the target application on the user interface. (CHAOS-970)
* In a chaos experiment, the fault library would incorrectly show fault categories and fault labels even when the hub had been disconnected. The fault library would persist data from the previously selected chaos hub. This has now been fixed. A disconnected chaos hub now displays the message “No faults found in the selected hub.” (CHAOS-971)
* On the chaos hub screen, you could not scroll through the list of hubs from any location on the screen. This issue has been fixed by moving the scroll bar to the extreme right of the screen. (CHAOS-964)
* If you hovered over a probe, its details would overflow if they were too long. Now, it has been fixed. (CHAOS-990)
* Any increase in the number of chaos faults that you wished to view on a single page in a chaos hub would result in a blank page. Now, it has been fixed. (CHAOS-984)
* When a chaos experiment was imported into the chaos hub, it would not be logged as an audit event and would not be displayed on the user interface. It has been fixed. (CHAOS-779)
* If no chaos infrastructure is connected with your project, a blank screen would be displayed. Now, the message "There are no chaos infrastructures in your project." is displayed. (CHAOS-1009) 
* In CRON experiments, the scheduled run time would always be shown in GMT. Now, it has been fixed to show the run time in your browser’s time zone. (CHAOS-1035)
* The parameters in the YAML manifest of different runs of the same chaos experiment were inconsistent with the changes made (if any) in their respective runs. Now, it has been fixed.


## December 23, 2022, version 0.6

### What’s new

* Optimized listWorkflow and listWorkflowRun queries in the chaos manager (CHAOS-860)
    * This release optimizes the listWorkflow and listWorkflowRun queries in the chaos manager by only fetching those experiments that the user requests, instead of loading all the experiments at once.

* Pagination on the faults and experiments screen (CHAOS-689)
    * This release adds pagination on the faults and experiment screen in chaos hub that allows you to scroll and navigate through the experiments by pages. 

* Enable **Save** and **Run** buttons on the experiment builder (CHAOS-913)
    * This release enables the **Save** and **Run** buttons after you tune the application by specifying the parameters on the user interface. As a consequence, the default weight is set to 10 since the user would not move to the next step of setting fault weights.
 
* Experiment can be viewed during execution (CHAOS-835)
    * This release allows you to view the experiment even when it is being executed. Previously, an experiment could be viewed only after the run was complete.  

* Edit chaos experiment is separated into two action components (CHAOS-685)
    * This release divides the **Edit experiment** action into two actions: **Edit Experiment** and **Clone Experiment**. The **Edit Experiment** action helps you make changes to the current (or selected) experiment. The **Clone Experiment** action helps you create a new experiment from an already existing experiment. The cloned experiment retains the same configuration as the original experiment with the ability to tune the configurations if required.

### Early access
* This release does not include any early access features.

### Fixed issues
* When a component on the user interface was missing due to incompatibilities, the page would stop responding. Now it has been fixed so that instead of the page crashing, the component field shows as empty. (CHAOS-843)
* Experiments executed and triggered by respective categories (a pipeline, a scheduled CRON job, or a user) are correctly shown. (CHAOS-800)
* When a chaos experiment contains characters such as ‘ ‘, ‘/’, and so on, logs are correctly parsed and displayed on the screen. The execution is encoded before being sent to the control plane and decoded after being received by the user interface. (CHAOS-854)
* After deleting a chaos experiment from a particular page, the pagination is reset and only shows the available experiments. (CHAOS-923)
* When a chaos infrastructure is deleted, details on the user interface wrongly showed the infrastructure ID instead of the infrastructure name. This is now fixed. (CHAOS-952)
* When a chaos experiment was pushed to the chaos hub, only a single fault associated with the experiment was being pushed, rather than all the faults. This is now fixed. (CHAOS-973)
* When a chaos experiment was deleted, only the most recent run was deleted, and the previous runs were retained in the cluster. Now it has been fixed such that when a chaos experiment is deleted, all the runs associated with it are deleted from the cluster. 
* When a chaos experiment was deleted, the fault running within the experiment was not stopped. Now it has been fixed such that, when an experiment is deleted, the chaos fault running on the Kubernetes cluster is halted, the fault is deleted, and the experiment as a whole is deleted. (CHAOS-782)
* When a chaos experiment was running, the user interface incorrectly showed probes that were still being executed as failed probes. Now it has been fixed so that the interface shows the correct status of the probes being executed. (CHAOS-911)
* The term “agent” was changed to “infrastructure”. While selecting (or creating) an infrastructure, the search bar showed all available infrastructures irrespective of the search string entered by the user in the search bar. (CHAOS-920) 
* When a CRON experiment was stopped by the user, the current run used to stop, but the upcoming (and subsequent) runs were not being affected by the stop. It has been fixed now so that stopping an experiment will stop the upcoming schedules as well. (CHAOS-713)

## December 2, 2022, version 0.4.2

### What’s new

* Provision to update chaos hub details (CHAOS-699)
    * This release allows you to update the details (such as name, Git connector, repository name, and branch name) of a connected chaos hub. 

* CDN support for static artifacts (CHAOS-600)
    * This release adds CDN support for static artifacts. CDN support reduces the latency while loading the user interface on client devices.

* Version information for Chaos Driver and Chaos Manager (CHAOS-729)
    * This release adds version numbers to **Chaos Driver** and **Chaos Manager**. Versioning the Chaos Driver and Chaos Manager enables Harness to version the corresponding endpoints (/chaos/driver/api/version for ChaosDriver and /chaos/manager/api/version for ChaosManager).

* Range filter for experiment runs in the experiment overview (CHAOS-824)
    * This release adds a range filter option in the **Experiment Runs** bar graph under **Experiment overview** that allows setting the range on the last run in the graph.

* Support for fault statuses (CHAOS-826)
    * This release adds support to show all the fault statuses in the Experiment Runs graph. In addition to the **Failed** and **Passed** fault status, faults in the **Awaited**, **Stopped**, and **N/A** states are also seen. 

* Seamless upgrade 
    * This release adds a manifest download button for the chaos infrastructures, to enable a seamless upgrade.

* Loaders for components and screens (CHAOS-822)
    * This release adds consistent loaders for all the components and screens in the user interface. These loaders decouple API requests and avoid blocking the rendering of the entire page due to chained API calls.

* Configurable response timeout for HTTP probes
    * This release adds a new response timeout parameter for HTTP probes in the user interface. The response timeout is in units of seconds. You can use this parameter to specify timeouts during HTTP probe health checks during chaos fault execution.

### Early access

* This release does not include any early access features.

### Fixed issues

* Enterprise chaos hub appeared in the search results irrespective of the terms searched. Now it has been fixed.
* Details of a previously connected chaos infrastructure were prefilled when connecting to a new chaos infrastructure. Now it has been fixed. (CHAOS-777)
* The **Run** button was activated even when the chaos experiment was running. Now, the button is reactivated only after the chaos experiment is complete.(CHAOS-807)
* The chaos access page shows all experiments and experiment runs instead of showing experiments that were performed within a specific time frame. (CHAOS-810, CHAOS-762) 
* A cancel button and a back button have been added to the enable chaos screen. The buttons have made it easy to navigate between screens when setting up the chaos infrastructure.
* When you search for a specific chaos fault and the chaos manager cannot map this chaos fault to a chaos fault icon, the user interface previously displayed an error. Now, instead of showing the error, it silently skips the error logs. (CHAOS-814)
* The expected resilience score changed to `NaN` (not a number) when it was overridden. Now it has been fixed. (CHAOS-791)
* The resource-type field was previously not available. Now, it has been made available and you can use this field to abort a chaos experiment in the audit trail. (CHAOS-714)

## November 14, 2022

### Early access

The Harness Chaos Engineering (HCE) module, which you can use to perform chaos experiments on your applications and infrastructure, is now available for testing. To be part of this testing, contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io). HCE documentation, which includes user guides and [tutorials](https://developer.harness.io/tutorials/run-chaos-experiments), is available on the Harness Developer Hub. Harness recommends that you gain familiarity with the chaos experimentation workflow in HCE by following the instructions in [Your First Chaos Experiment Run](https://developer.harness.io/tutorials/run-chaos-experiments/first-chaos-engineering).

### Known issues

#### Chaos hub

1. Github is the only Git provider for chaos hubs.
2. Details for an already connected chaos hub can’t be updated.

#### Chaos infrastructure

1. Chaos infrastructure can't be installed through Harness Delegate.
2. Logs for chaos infrastructure can’t be viewed.
3. The properties of chaos infrastructure can’t be updated. You will need to provide blacklisted namespaces.
4. The properties of the environment to which the chaos infrastructure belongs can’t be updated.
5. Configuring chaos infrastructure doesn’t provide support for Linux and Windows.

#### Chaos experiments

1. Experiments with parallel faults can’t be created.
2. Probe tunables can’t be updated or edited.
3. A cron or recurring chaos experiment can’t be suspended or resumed.
4. An individual fault in an experiment can’t be stopped through your input.
5. A chaos experiment can’t be pushed to Gitlab, Bitbucket, or Gerrit.
6. A chaos experiment can’t be pushed from Azure to Got
7. SCM experiment push logs can’t be audited.

#### CI Pipeline integration

1. Optional assertion for chaos step failure can’t be provided during pipeline integration.
2. The chaos error type(s) can’t be selected in a failure strategy.
3. Timeouts can’t be defined for experiment execution.
4. Access control can’t be gained for the chaos step addition.
5. Pipeline template support can’t be obtained with the chaos steps.
6. The experiment execution can’t be viewed from step output during the experiment run.
7. Propagation can’t be aborted from chaos step to experiment execution.
8. Information about propagation can’t be gained from pipeline to experiment (for audit purposes).
